out in the reserve they're ready to fit
Wendy's tracking device there's a team
of 12 on location led by save the
elephant's head of field research
David mm such an important elephant
because wendy has whole bunch of orphan
Cubs that are actually depending on her
so what will be involved in today's
operation is actually making sure that
the vet is there the animal is at the
right place at the right time and you
know all our equipment everything is in
the right place so it's huge logistics
huge logistics for a huge animal this is
no ordinary battery change Saba is an
elephant expert in her own right with
her guests settled in camp she can play
her part in keeping everyone safe oh
this could be tricky the security of the
animal is paramount we have to
although that our team is not
compromised my job in this exercise is
to protect the team and that's no mean
feat she has to put herself between the
team and the herd I don't know I always
get given this job for some reason maybe
if somebody's trying to get rid of me
time to get into position
put everyone just listen in the video so
somebody if you could pass where I'm
just more West that would be good okay
the females are right here there is the
tracking device caught her in sight okay
we're just going to put the dirt in any
time the vet
Matthew matenda is standing by with the
tranquilizer dad Seeley 10:45 it'll be a
few minutes before Wendi goes to sleep
so this is um
a good situation she's not too panicked
she hasn't given alarm course for the
rest of the family a relative he's
secured she can't quite figure I was
happy that she's been stung by something
that really hurt but she's okay this is
why it's really important to stay quiet
and I'll give her any reason to feel
under threat from us attaching the
tracking device is vital if the team
knows where Wendy is they can stay one
step ahead of the poachers so what's
happening now is David I she can't go in
because we're about five minutes into
the drug taking effect and normally it
takes about eight minutes when she
starts getting woozy it's just happening
now look she's gonna go down any minute
and there's something else to worry
about where's the baby David and Subba
will have to temporarily separate Wendy
from her baby there's a danger with the
baby is that it'll it'll stay close and
and interfering it very upset the other
thing that can happen is the mother can
actually pull over on top of the baby
and so if we can just shoot away there's
a lot better I'm gonna come a bit closer
David makes his move to split up Wendy
in her calf catheters she's gonna go
down to closest they've isolated her
from the others she should go down any
minute now